---
title: "Issues Related with use of FDTD in Return-stroke Modeling"
collection: talks
type: "Conference proceedings talk"
excerpt: ''
permalink: /talks/2014-03-01-talk-3
venue: "ASIAEM Conference"
date: June, 2019
location: "Bangalore, India"
---

Abstract—– Lightning process is the main source of electro-magnetic interference to the man-made electrical and electronic systems. Study of dynamic field due to lightning process, specifically due to return stroke, has been of interest to design-engineers for protection-related issues and to physicists for getting a better
idea about the actual processes involved. As it is extremely difficult to measure fields due to lightning, specially at close
distance, theoretical modeling is the only alternative. Different approaches has been employed over the years for modeling return-stroke. In the recent past, a self-consistent return stroke model was proposed which could provide a deeper insight into some of the salient aspects of the phenomenon but the use
of thin-wire formulation for the required computation of the dynamic field has limited its application. As a result, realistic non- homogeneous soil is difficult to model with this approach. Finite difference time domain (FDTD) method for field computation can handle non-homogeneity and non-linearity with much efficiency and will be suitable for return stroke simulation with realistic description of soil. However, several issues regarding application of FDTD to this particular geometry is to be resolved before applying the method for return stroke simulation. This paper attempts to point out the different difficulties that is faced in implementation of FDTD for the given problem geometry and few approaches which can be used to overcome the problem.
